---
title: Is InnerSource Right for My Project?
contributors:
  - name: rrrutledge
    url: https://github.com/rrrutledge
  - name: Laura Little
    url: https://github.com/marshmallowrobot
image: https://img.youtube.com/vi/QQ1z9DHlbhg/mqdefault.jpg
featured: false
weight: 8
youtubeCode: QQ1z9DHlbhg
---
<div class="paragraph">
<p>InnerSource is the application of open source principles to company-internal software development. Done right, it unblocks progress and eases adoption of shared services and modules.
This article contains guidance and questions to ask yourself when considering adoption of an InnerSource approach to running your project.</p>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_will_contributions_come">Will Contributions Come?</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>An InnerSource approach only makes sense if contributions are expected from the project&#8217;s users.
You can expect contributions to come if you see or anticipate noticeable amounts of energy directed at your project area by its users. Some examples:</p>
</div>
<div class="ulist">
<ul>
<li>
<p>High amounts of project usage and adoption.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>More feature requests than your team has time to fill.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Users doing workarounds to compensate for lack of features in your project.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Feature requests that take nearly as much time to explain as they would just to implement.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Multiple roadmap dependencies on your project.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_will_i_support_contributions">Will I Support Contributions?</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Even with willing contributors, the code doesn&#8217;t just flow in.
You will need to encourage and support contributions via activities such as:</p>
</div>
<div class="ulist">
<ul>
<li>
<p>Understanding users' scenarios and suggesting what contributions in your project could help them to meet those scenarios.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Inviting users to make the contributions that they need and following up with them to ensure that they do them.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Maintaining an <a href="https://patterns.innersourcecommons.org/p/base-documentation#contributing.md">CONTRIBUTING.md</a> document that contains everything an engineer needs to know to contribute to the project.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Giving up-front guidance and direction as to how to implement a given contribution.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Being available during regular hours for any ad-hoc questions that contributors have.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Timely review of incoming pull requests.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Ongoing maintenance of submitted code (after the <a href="https://patterns.innersourcecommons.org/p/30-day-warranty">warranty window</a>).</p>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_is_it_company_specific">Is it Company Specific?</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>InnerSource projects make sense when the project is specific to the company or when its exclusive usage gives the company a strategic business advantage.
Other collaborative projects should be run as open source to increase the contribution pool and impact.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_summary">Summary</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>If contributions will come <strong>and</strong> you will support those contributions <strong>and</strong> your project is company-specific, then InnerSource is right for your project.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!--- This file autogenerated from https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath/blob/main/scripts -->