---
title: InnerSource and Planning
contributors:
  - name: rrrutledge
    url: https://github.com/rrrutledge
  - name: Isabel Drost-Fromm
    url: https://github.com/MaineC
image: images/learn/LP-article-default.png
featured: false
weight: 3
youtubeCode: ""
---
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Planning plays a role in InnerSource in two important situations:</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Contributing teams need to understand that working on upstream code
typically does need more time than making comparable changes to their
own codebase that they are well familiar with. They need to be aware of
the fact that even if the host team does not have to implement the
change they still need to be available for mentoring and reviewing. The
time needed for that increases with the size of the change required. As
a result early communication with the host team is important in
particular in cases of larger changes.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Host teams also need to be aware of the time needed for mentoring and
reviewing. Simply telling contributing teams that they can submit
changes as patches does not reduce the time to make the change to zero
for the host team. In addition host teams can find themselves in the
rare situation where they are flooded with pull requests. For that event
there needs to be a clear understanding of business priorities for the
projects sending these pull requests. When overwhelmed with patches it
is often time to think about sharing ownership of the component. In
particular contributors that are coming back regularly and have earned
trust of the host team are good candidates to receive the title Trusted
Committer.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Some friction due to slightly different work culture cannot be avoided
though. For these cases it is important to explicitly set expectations.</p>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_setting_expectations">Setting expectations</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Imagine the following situation: As a contributor you finally made the
change needed - likely with a little help from the host team. You
proudly submit the pull request. Then - nothing happens. A day later -
still no reaction. You start wondering if the host team has seen your
patch. You wonder where to best ping the team about an update. This
silence is very frustrating in particular for first time contributors.
There are several remedies to this situation - remedies that need no
coding knowledge, but require at least some basic communication skills:</p>
</div>
<div class="ulist">
<ul>
<li>
<p>Make reaction times that can be expected of the host team explicit -
e.g. in the contributing documentation.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>As soon as a pull request is
received communicate the expected time it will take to receive
substantial feedback instead of letting contributors wait.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Communicate
ways for contributors to get in touch with the host team and watch
communication there.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Neither of these tasks needs code writing skills. This underscores the
need for people beyond those who have programming knowledge. It is good
practice to consider people covering these tasks as committed to the
InnerSource project and include them as Trusted Committers as well.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_small_vs_large_changes">Small vs. large changes</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Small changes and patches are easy to handle - they are quick to review
and often do not carry a lot of risk when merged. One way to help host
teams is to make time for splitting changes into smaller chunks. Make
sure to communicate the wider context these changes belong to though.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Often making larger changes requires communicating intent and purpose
early. It can also be benefitial to make sure contributing team and host
team have enough time set aside for working on the change together. This
means that people setting team priorities need to think beyond their own
team when prioritizing changes. However coordination can still happen
fairly independently as typically only the pair of contributing and host
team are involved.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_increasing_the_team_around_your_innersource_projects">Increasing the team around your InnerSource projects</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Rarely host teams run into the challenge of receiving too many patches
from contributing teams. In that case it helps thinking about moving
trusted contributors to the Trusted Committer role. In addition to
simply help with reviews, new Trusted Committers can help with issue
triage, mentoring new contributors and the like.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>When faced with a lot of interest in contributions one additional factor
to consider when prioritising mentoring help for contributors can be
interest of the contributors in a long term relationship with the host
team. The more time is needed for mentoring, the more likely it should
be for contributors to stick around longer.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>In practice sharing ownership of the component with very active
contributors has proven to keep the newly minted Trusted Committers
engaged with the project over a longer period of time. Typically they
help keep the component up to date and mentor new contributors long
after the initial motivation for the contribution has been addressed.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!--- This file autogenerated from https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath/blob/main/scripts -->