---
title: 'InnerSource Summit 2022'
image: "/images/events/Summit2022.png"
date: 2022-11-16
publishDate: 2022-08-22
---

### Registrations are Now Open
#### 16th & 17th November 2022 - online

**Join us at the world's leading gathering of InnerSource practitioners.**

**[Register Now!](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/innersource-summit-2022-tickets-432500048287)**

InnerSource takes the lessons learned from developing open source software and applies them to the way companies develop software internally. The InnerSource Commons (ISC) is the world's largest community of InnerSource practitioners, who have come together with the goal of creating and sharing knowledge about InnerSource. You can join the community on **[slack](https://join.slack.com/t/innersourcecommons/shared_invite/zt-1htfuq036-Uq22qnDHA6kydBvk_C5PUw).**

We come together at our summits to learn and share experiences. Join us there to...

- Hear about global trends in InnerSource.
- Learn from others who are on the journey of InnerSource adoption.
- Share your own experience and meet like-minded people, all of who are passionate about making InnerSource a success within their respective organizations.

#### Sessions

Our summit is planned over multiple time zones so we look forward to seeing you there, no matter where in the world you are sitting. The summit will comprise of 2 x 3.5 hour sessions, each timed for our community in particular regions. Each session will have a unique set of speakers in two tracks that run simultaneously. One registration covers both sessions, and we hope many of you will join us for both.

1. Part 1 is timed for Europe, Africa, East Coast US, and early birds on the US west coast: (Wed 16th Nov UTC 3-6:30pm / CET 4-7:30pm / EST 10-1:30pm / PST 7-10:30am)
2. Part 2 is timed for APAC, Europe, Middle East, & Africa: (Thur 17th Nov UTC 7:30-11am / CET 8:30 -12pm / IST 1- 4:30pm / AEST & CST 6:30 -10pm)

#### Tickets

There are three ticket options for the summit:

- Community ticket (free): for the ISC community and those who can't afford a registration fee
- Community ticket with T-shirt ($35): access all sessions and receive a commemorative T-shirt after the event
- Corporate ticket ($300): for those with corporate travel or training budgets who want to support InnerSource Commons. Includes a commemorative T-shirt. Formal invoices / receipts can be provided upon request for this option.
Once you have ordered your tickets, full details of how to access the event will be emailed to you one week before the event.

#### Sponsorship

If you want to reach the global InnerSource audience while supporting the work of the InnerSource Commons Foundation, we have also added an option for you to sponsor the Summit on the ticket page. For $2,000 you will be listed as an event sponsor in all the materials related to the event. We will thank you at every opportunity, and your logo and brand will be forever associated with this fabulous event through the videos that will be shared with our growing community for years to come.

In case you need any more convincing, we'll also send you a goody bag with a selection of our popular InnerSource Commons T-shirts and stickers to share with your employees.

Formal invoices and receipts can also be provided for sponsors.


### What is the InnerSource Commons?

The InnerSource Commons ([InnerSourceCommons.org](http://innersourcecommons.org)) aka ISC is a consortium of representatives from over 500 companies and institutions. It utilizes open source methods to provide organizations pursuing inner sourcing a forum for discussing and improving the practice of InnerSource through the sharing of experiences (under the [Chatham House Rule](https://www.chathamhouse.org/about/chatham-house-rule)), creation and review of InnerSource patterns, and the open exchange of ideas.


### [Code of Conduct](/about/codeofconduct/)

All participants, vendors, and guests at InnerSource Commons events are required to abide by the [code of conduct](/about/codeofconduct/).
All related conversations in the InnerSource Slack Channel will still be considered to fall under [Chatham House Rules](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chatham_House_Rule): information discussed can be shared but not attributed.
Interested in getting involved? Email <summit@innersourcecommons.org> or join the conversation on the [#innersourcecommons](https://innersourcecommons-inviter.herokuapp.com/) slack channel!