---
title: Introducing the Trusted Committer Role
contributors:
  - name: Tom Sadler
    url: https://github.com/tsadler1988
  - name: Ludmila
    url: https://github.com/Ludmila-N
  - name: Johannes Tigges
    url: https://github.com/lenucksi
image: https://img.youtube.com/vi/2FdD9Gup6Yc/mqdefault.jpg
featured: true
weight: 1
youtubeCode: 2FdD9Gup6Yc
---
<div class="paragraph pagenumrestart">
<p>The Trusted Committer (TC) role is one of the key roles in an
InnerSource community. Think of Trusted Committers as the people in a community that
you trust with important technical decisions and with mentoring
contributors to ultimately get contributions over the finish line.
The Trusted Committer role is both demanding and rewarding. It is
more than just being an opinionated gatekeeper and is instrumental for
the success of any InnerSource community.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Generally speaking, the Trusted Committer role is defined by its responsibilities,
rather than by its privileges. On a very high level, Trusted Committers represent the
interests of both their InnerSource community and the products the
community is building. They are concerned with the health of both the
community and the product. So as a Trusted Committer, you’ll have both
tech- and community-oriented responsibilities. We’ll explore both of these
dimensions in the following sections.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Before we go into the details of what a Trusted Committer actually does, let’s spend
some time contrasting the Trusted Committer role with other roles in InnerSource at a
high level of abstraction and explain why we think the name is both apt
and important. Let’s start with the <a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/contributor/01"><em>Contributor</em></a> role. A
<em>Contributor</em> — as the name implies—makes contributions to an InnerSource
community. These contributions could be code or non-code artifacts, such
as bug reports, feature requests, or documentation.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p><em>Contributors</em> may or may not be part of the community. They might
be sent by another team to develop a feature the team needs. This
is why we sometimes also refer to <em>Contributors</em> as <em>Guests</em> or as
part of a <em>Guest Team</em>. The <em>Contributor</em> is responsible for "fitting
in" and for conforming to the community’s expectations and processes.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>The <em>Trusted Committer</em> is always a member of the InnerSource community,
which is also sometimes referred to as the <em>Host Team</em>. In this analogy,
the Trusted Committer is responsible for both building the house and setting the house
rules to ensure their guests are comfortable and can work together
effectively. Compared to contributors, Trusted Committers have earned the
responsibility to push code closer to production and are generally
allowed to perform tasks that have a higher level of risk associated
with them.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>The <a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/product-owner/01"><em>Product Owner</em> (PO)</a> is the third role in InnerSource. Similar to
agile processes, the PO is responsible for defining and prioritizing
requirements and stories for the community to implement. The PO
interacts often with the Trusted Committer, (e.g., in making sure that a requested or
contributed feature actually belongs to the product). Especially in
smaller, grassroots InnerSource communities, the Trusted Committer usually also
acts as a PO. Check out our <a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/product-owner/01">Product Owner Learning Path segment</a>
for more detailed information.</p>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_why_role_names_matter">Why Role Names Matter</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>The role of the Trusted Committer is present in every successful InnerSource community
but not every community uses that name. Some communities use the term
Maintainer, but this term conflicts with other technical roles such as the
"Maintainer" role defined by GitHub, for instance. Apache uses the term
<em>Committer</em>, too, but they attach fewer and mostly tech-oriented
responsibilities to that role. With its additional community-oriented responsibilities,
the Trusted Committer role goes beyond that. The "Trusted" in Trusted Committer
means this person is trusted and thus empowered by both their
management and their community to do their job. By fostering openness
and transparency, Trusted Committers build trust in the process and also in the product
being built.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Similar to how naming is important in writing software, choosing the right names for roles and
doing so consistently ensures that everyone has the same understanding about the roles played in the community.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Now that you have a basic understanding of the role, why using the
term Trusted Committer is appropriate, and know how a Trusted Committer
might interact with other common roles in a software project, let&#8217;s take
a quick look at the responsibilities of a Trusted Committer.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="sect2">
<h3 id="_responsibilities">Responsibilities</h3>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Trusted Committers have various responsibilities, including:</p>
</div>
<div class="ulist">
<ul>
<li>
<p><a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/trusted-committer/02/">Ensuring product quality</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/trusted-committer/03/">Keeping the community healthy</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/trusted-committer/05/">Reducing the barriers to making contributions</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/trusted-committer/04/">Upleveling the community</a></p>
</li>
<li>
<p><a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/trusted-committer/06/">Advocating the community&#8217;s needs</a></p>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>We will look at these responsibilities in more depth in the following pages and also explore the path of <a href="https://innersourcecommons.net/learn/learning-path/trusted-committer/07/">becoming a Trusted Committer</a> at the end of this article.</p>
</div>
</div>
<!--- This file autogenerated from https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath/blob/master/scripts/generate_learning_path_markdown.js -->