---
title: Ensuring Product Quality
contributors:
  - name: Tom Sadler
    url: https://github.com/tsadler1988
  - name: Ludmila
    url: https://github.com/Ludmila-N
  - name: Johannes Tigges
    url: https://github.com/lenucksi
image: images/learn/LP_thumbnail_trustedcommitter.jpg
featured: false
weight: 2
youtubeCode: QQ1z9DHlbhg
---
<div class="sect1">
<h2 id="_ensuring_product_quality">Ensuring Product Quality</h2>
<div class="sectionbody">
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Let’s start with the responsibility most often associated with the Trusted Committer
role: ensuring product quality.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>In an InnerSource community, the Trusted Committers <em>own</em> all tech-related decisions,
especially those related to product quality. Ownership implies the
need to make sure the decisions in place are followed through. This
includes communicating and—if necessary—advocating for these decisions,
inside and outside of the community. But Trusted Committers don’t necessarily make all the
tech-related decisions themselves or do all the work to implement them.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>It is the Trusted Committer&#8217;s job to communicate and clarify quality standards in their
community and to formulate them in a way that is understandable and
actionable by their <a href="https://innersourcecommons.org/resources/learningpath/contributor/index"><em>Contributors</em></a>. This includes written documentation,
of course, but the most effective way for Trusted Committers to communicate these quality standards is by example. We think it
can be a worthwhile goal for an InnerSource community to try and
distinguish itself from traditional software development projects not
just in the way they organize development but also in the quality of the
software they produce, as well. A high level of software quality is essential for establishing and maintaining the
trust in the InnerSource community on part of their users and their management. We all know how one bad release can shatter this trust in an instant.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Trusted Committers also make sure the community has the infrastructure and the
tools they need to produce quality software. The peer review, usually
performed as part of pull requests (PRs), is most frequently used to ensure quality. While everybody can usually start
and participate in pull requests by pointing out necessary improvements,
it is usually only the Trusted Committer who can ultimately accept and merge or reject
a contribution. This is what we meant earlier when we said "Trusted Committers can push code
closer to production." Trusted Committers should also help <a href="https://innersourcecommons.org/resources/learningpath/contributor/index"><em>Contributors</em></a> during
a PR to get their contributions over the finish line.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>That said, it is ultimately the contributor&#8217;s job to make that happen.
The job of a Trusted Committer is not to accept all contributions by default, but to
only accept those that meet the defined criteria in terms of quality and
scope. And Trusted Committers should avoid rewriting a contributor&#8217;s code to make it
"fit" as much as possible, even if it means spending more time
supporting  <a href="https://innersourcecommons.org/resources/learningpath/contributor/index"><em>Contributors</em></a> in a PR. Trusted Committers
take a long-term perspective and understand that this kind of support is
an investment in the longevity of the community, and it will increase the community&#8217;s development speed in the long run.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Sometimes project requirements or limitations are not known upfront and are instead
discovered during development. Trusted Committers are also responsible for making sure
these findings are captured and documented for both the <a href="https://innersourcecommons.org/resources/learningpath/product-owner/index"><em>Product Owners</em></a> and the
<a href="https://innersourcecommons.org/resources/learningpath/contributor/index"><em>Contributors</em></a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>But the Trusted Committer&#8217;s purview with respect to quality goes beyond pull requests.
Trusted Committers think about quality on a strategic level and ensure the
longevity of the software being built. This entails code-oriented
responsibilities from ensuring cleanliness of the code to maintaining
conceptual integrity of the overall software. It also entails
management-oriented tasks such as making sure the community is
given sufficient time to refactor their software or move a release date
in favor of quality improvements, if needed.
The effectiveness of the Trusted Committer is strongly related to code health.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>Absent the latter, Trusted Committers will have to spend much of their valuable time
validating and documenting workarounds for bugs or a fragile
architecture and will not have enough time to spend on onboarding and
mentoring <a href="https://innersourcecommons.org/resources/learningpath/contributor/index"><em>Contributors</em></a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="paragraph">
<p>In conclusion, ensuring product quality is a key responsibility of Trusted Committers.
They set quality standards and lead by example. They participate in pull
requests and help <a href="https://innersourcecommons.org/resources/learningpath/contributor/index"><em>Contributors</em></a> meet
quality standards. They also take responsibility for the long-term
health of the software.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<!--- This file autogenerated from https://github.com/InnerSourceCommons/InnerSourceLearningPath/blob/master/scripts/generate_new_site_learning_path_markdown.js -->